---
title: redirect_to(options = {}, response_status = {}) protected
layout: post
date: '2017-10-02 21:25:18'
categories: ruby
comments: true
---

Redirects the browser to the target specified in options. This parameter can take one of three forms:

*  Hash - The URL will be generated by calling url_for with the options.
* Record - The URL will be generated by calling url_for with the options, which will reference a named URL for that record.
* String starting with protocol:// (like http://) - Is passed straight through as the target for redirection.
* String not containing a protocol - The current protocol and host is prepended to the string.
* :back - Back to the page that issued the request. Useful for forms that are triggered from multiple places. Short-hand for redirect_to(request.env[&quot;HTTP_REFERER&quot;])

Examples:

{% highlight ruby %}
 redirect_to :action => "show", :id => 5
  redirect_to post
  redirect_to "http://www.rubyonrails.org"
  redirect_to "/images/screenshot.jpg"
  redirect_to articles_url
  redirect_to :back
{% endhighlight %}

The redirection happens as a "302 Moved" header unless otherwise specified.

Examples:

{% highlight ruby %}
redirect_to post_url(@post), :status => :found
  redirect_to :action=>'atom', :status => :moved_permanently
  redirect_to post_url(@post), :status => 301
  redirect_to :action=>'atom', :status => 302
{% endhighlight %}

It is also possible to assign a flash message as part of the redirection. There are two special accessors for commonly used the flash names alert and notice as well as a general purpose flash bucket.

Examples:

{% highlight ruby %}
  redirect_to post_url(@post), :alert => "Watch it, mister!"
  redirect_to post_url(@post), :status=> :found, :notice => "Pay attention to the road"
  redirect_to post_url(@post), :status => 301, :flash => { :updated_post_id => @post.id }
  redirect_to { :action=>'atom' }, :alert => "Something serious happened"
{% endhighlight %}

When using redirect_to :back, if there is no referrer, RedirectBackError will be raised. You may specify some fallback behavior for this case by rescuing RedirectBackError.